KOGITO-9458: Create the detailed guide about running a quarkus workfl… (#604)
apache/incubator-kie-kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/getting-started/create-your-first-workflow-project.adoc

* {quarkus_cli_url}[Quarkus CLI] or xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.adoc[Knative Workflow CLI] {kn_cli_version} is installed.
* Visual Studio Code with https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.java[Red Hat Java Extension]
and https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-extension-serverless-workflow-editor[Red Hat Serverless Workflow Editor] is installed to edit your workflows.

For more information about the tooling and the required dependencies, see xref:getting-started/getting-familiar-with-our-tooling.adoc[Getting familiar with {product_name} tooling].

ifeval::["{kogito_version_redhat}" != ""]
include::../../pages/_common-content/downstream-project-setup-instructions.adoc[]
endif::[]

[[proc-analysis-phase]]
== Analysis and taking decisions phase

In this phase the goal is to make some decisions about persistence, eventing, security,.. What needs to be the topology of our application and how the different components need to interact.

[[proc-adding-persistence]]
=== Adding persistence?

We need to decide if we need to ensure that your workflow instances remain consistent in the context.

> When the persistence is not configured, an in-memory persistence is used, making all the {workflow_instance} information volatile upon runtime restarts. In this case if the workflow runtime is restarted.

Reviewer: I think we can also add something to explain that no persistence use case is completely valid use

> = Creating a Quarkus Workflow Project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Creating a Quarkus Workflow project
```

> As a developer, you can use {product_name} to create an application and in this guide we want to explore different options and provide an overview of available tools that can help in that purpose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a developer, you can use {product_name} to create an application and in this guide, we want to explore different options and provide an overview of available tools that can help.
```

We will also use Quarkus dev mode for iterative development and testing.

As a common application development, you have different phases: Analysis, Development and Deployment. Let's explore in detail each phase and what {product_name} provides in each case:

* <<proc-analysis-phase,Analysis and taking decisions phase>>
** <<proc-adding-persistence,Adding persistence?>>
** <<proc-adding-eventing,Adding eventing?>>
** <<proc-adding-data-index-service,Adding Data Index service?>>
** <<proc-adding-job-service,Adding Job service?>>

* <<proc-development-phase,Development phase>>
** <<proc-boostrapping-the-project,Bootstrapping a project, Creating a workflow, Running your workflow application and Testing your workflow application >>
** <<proc-logging-configuration,How to configure logging>>
** <<proc-dev-ui, Refine your workflow testing with Dev-UI>>
* <<proc-deployment-phase,Deployment phase>>

.Prerequisites

> * You have setup your environment according to the xref:getting-started/preparing-environment.adoc#proc-advanced-local-environment-setup[advanced environment setup] guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have set up your environment according to the xref:getting-started/preparing-environment.adoc#proc-advanced-local-environment-setup[advanced environment setup] guide.
```

For more information about the tooling and the required dependencies, see xref:getting-started/getting-familiar-with-our-tooling.adoc[Getting familiar with {product_name} tooling].

ifeval::["{kogito_version_redhat}" != ""]
include::../../pages/_common-content/downstream-project-setup-instructions.adoc[]
endif::[]

[[proc-analysis-phase]]
== Analysis phase

> Start by analyzing the requirements for your {product_name} application. This will enable you to make decisions about persistence, eventing, security, topology and component interaction needs of your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start by analyzing the requirements for your {product_name} application. This will enable you to make decisions about the persistence, eventing, security, topology, and component interaction needs of your application.
```

[[proc-adding-persistence]]

> === Adding persistence?

Reviewer 2: Is the use of `?` intentional here? 
```suggestion
=== Adding persistence
```

> Service orchestration is a relevant use case regarding the rise of microservices and event driven architectures. These architectures focus on communication between services and there is always the need to coordinate that communication without the persistence addition requirement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Service orchestration is a relevant use case regarding the rise of microservices and event-driven architectures. These architectures focus on communication between services and there is always the need to coordinate that communication without the persistence addition requirement.
```

> {product_name} applications use an in-memory persistence by default. This makes all the {workflow_instance} information volatile upon runtime restarts. In case of this guide, when the workflow runtime is restarted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{product_name} applications use an in-memory persistence by default. This makes all the {workflow_instance} information volatile upon runtime restarts. In the case of this guide, when the workflow runtime is restarted.
```

> As a developer, you need to decide if there is a need to ensure that your workflow instances remain consistent in the context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a developer, you must decide if you need to ensure that your workflow instances remain consistent in the context.
```

> If your application requires persistence, you need to decide what kind of persistence is needed and configure it properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your application requires persistence, you must decide what kind of persistence is needed and configure it properly.
```

Follow the {product_name} xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/persistence/persistence-core-concepts.adoc[persistence guide] for more information.

> You can find more information about how to create an application which writes to and reads from a database following link:https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started-dev-services[Your second Quarkus application] guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find more information about how to create an application that writes to and reads from a database following link:https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started-dev-services[Your second Quarkus application] guide.
```

[[proc-adding-eventing]]

> === Adding eventing?

Reviewer 2: Is the use of `?` intentional here?
```suggestion
=== Adding eventing
```

Quarkus unifies reactive and imperative programming you can find more information about this in the link:https://quarkus.io/guides/quarkus-reactive-architecture[Quarkus Reactive Architecture] guide.

> In this phase we need to decide how the Event-Driven Architecture needs to be added to our project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this phase, we need to decide how the Event-Driven Architecture needs to be added to our project.
```

> As an event-driven architecture, it uses events to trigger and communicate between services. It allows decoupled applications to asynchronously publish and subscribe to events through an event broker. The event-driven architecture is a method of developing systems that allows information to flow in real time between applications, microservices, and connected devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an event-driven architecture, it uses events to trigger and communicate between services. It allows decoupled applications to publish and subscribe to events through an event broker asynchronously. The event-driven architecture is a method of developing systems that allows information to flow in real time between applications, microservices, and connected devices.
```

This means that applications and devices do not need to know where they are sending information or where the information they are consuming comes from.

If we choose to add eventing, {product_name} supports different options like:

* *Kafka Connector* for Reactive Messaging. See xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/event-orchestration/consume-producing-events-with-kafka.adoc[] for more details.
* *Knative* eventing.  See xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/event-orchestration/consume-produce-events-with-knative-eventing.adoc[] for more details.

> You need to choose how the different project components will communicate and what kind of communication is needed. More details about link:https://quarkus.io/guides/quarkus-reactive-architecture#quarkus-extensions-enabling-reactive[Quarkus Extensions enabling Reactive]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must choose how the different project components will communicate and what kind of communication is needed. More details about link:https://quarkus.io/guides/quarkus-reactive-architecture#quarkus-extensions-enabling-reactive[Quarkus Extensions enabling Reactive]
```

[[proc-adding-data-index-service]]

> === Adding Data Index service?

Reviewer 2: Is the use of `?` intentional here?
```suggestion
=== Adding Data Index service
```

> The {data_index_ref} service is able to index the {workflow_instance} information using GraphQL. This is very useful if you want to consume the workflow data in different applications through a GraphQL endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {data_index_ref} service can index the {workflow_instance} information using GraphQL. This is very useful if you want to consume the workflow data in different applications through a GraphQL endpoint.
```

For more information about {data_index_ref} service see xref:data-index/data-index-core-concepts.adoc[] for more details.

> If you decide to index the data, you need to select how to integrate the {data_index_ref} service in your topology. Here are some options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you decide to index the data, you must select how to integrate the {data_index_ref} service in your topology. Here are some options:
```

> * You can choose to have the data indexation service integrated directly in our application using the different xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/data-index/data-index-quarkus-extension.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can choose to have the data indexation service integrated directly into our application using the different xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/data-index/data-index-quarkus-extension.adoc[].
```

> * We can choose to have the data indexation service integrated directly in our application using the different xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/data-index/data-index-quarkus-extension.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can choose to have the data indexation service integrated directly in our application using the different xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/data-index/data-index-quarkus-extension.adoc[].
```

> This allows you to use the same data source as the application persistence uses, without the need of extra service deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to use the same data source as the application persistence uses, without the need for extra service deployment.
```

> This allows just using the same Datasource as the application persistence without any extra service deployment.
> ** *{data_index_ref} persistence extension*. That persists the indexed data directly at the application Data source.
> ** *{data_index_ref} extension*. Allow to Persist directly the indexed data at the application Data source and also provide the GraphQL endpoint to interact with the persisted data.
> * Another option is to have the Data Index as a standalone service, we need to properly configure the communication between our new application and the service. More details in xref:data-index/data-index-service.adoc[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to use the same data source as the application persistence uses, without the need of extra service deployment.
** *{data_index_ref} persistence extension*. That persists the indexed data directly at the application data source.
** *{data_index_ref} extension*. That persist directly the indexed data at the application data source and also provide the GraphQL endpoint to interact with the persisted data.
* Another option is to have the Data Index as a standalone service. In this case, you need to properly configure the communication between your {product_name} application and the {data_index_ref} service. More details in xref:data-index/data-index-service.adoc[]
```

> * Another option is to have the Data Index as a standalone service. In this case, you need to properly configure the communication between your {product_name} application and the {data_index_ref} service. More details in xref:data-index/data-index-service.adoc[]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Another option is to have the Data Index as a standalone service. In this case, you must properly configure the communication between your {product_name} application and the {data_index_ref} service. More details in xref:data-index/data-index-service.adoc[]
```

[[proc-adding-job-service]]

> === Adding Job service?

Reviewer 2: Is the use of `?` intentional here?
```suggestion
=== Adding Job service
```

The Job Service facilitates the scheduled execution of tasks in a cloud environment. If any of your {product_name} workflow needs some kind of temporary schedule, you will need to integrate the Job service.

> If you decide to use Job Service, you need to select how to integrate the service in your topology. Here are some options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you decide to use Job Service, you need to select how to integrate the service into your topology. Here are some options:
```

> * You can choose to have the Job service integrated directly in your {product_name} Quarkus application using xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/job-service/quarkus-extensions.adoc[] guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can choose to have the Job service integrated directly into your {product_name} Quarkus application using xref:use-cases/advanced-developer-use-cases/job-service/quarkus-extensions.adoc[] guide.
```

> * Explore how to integrate the Job service and define the interaction with your {product_name} application workflows. You can find more Job service related details in xref:job-services/core-concepts.adoc[Job Service Core concepts].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Explore how to integrate the Job service and define the interaction with your {product_name} application workflows. You can find more Job service-related details in xref:job-services/core-concepts.adoc[Job Service Core concepts].
```

[[proc-development-phase]]
== Development phase

> Once you decided which components you need to integrate into {product_name} project, you can jump into the workflow development phase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you decide which components you must integrate into {product_name} project, you can jump into the workflow development phase.
```

> The goal is to create a workflow and be able to test and improve it. {product_name} provides some tooling in order to facilitate the developer to try the workflows during this development phase and refine them before going to deployment phase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goal is to create a workflow and be able to test and improve it. {product_name} provides some tooling to facilitate the developer to try the workflows during this development phase and refine them before going to the deployment phase.
```

Quarkus supports the JBoss Logging API and multiple other logging APIs, seamlessly integrated with JBoss Log Manager
In order to be able to see the in detail access to link:{quarkus_guides_logging_url}[Quarkus Logging Configuration guide]

.Example adding Logging configuration properties in `application.properties` file
[source,properties]
----
quarkus.log.console.enable=true <1>
quarkus.log.level=INFO <2>
quarkus.log.category."org.apache.kafka.clients".level=INFO
quarkus.log.category."org.apache.kafka.common.utils".level=INFO <3>
----
<1> If console logging should be enabled, even by default is set to true
<2> The log level of the root category, which is used as the default log level for all categories
<3> Logging is configured on a per-category basis, with each category being configured independently. Configuration for a category applies recursively to all subcategories unless there is a more specific subcategory configuration

[NOTE]
====
Access to link:{quarkus_guides_logging_url}#loggingConfigurationReference[Logging configuration reference] to see how logs properties can be configured
====

[[proc-dev-ui]]

> === Refine your workflow testing with Dev-UI

Reviewer 2: As this is a proc module I would suggest adding `ing` format to the verb 
```suggestion
=== Refining your workflow testing with Dev-UI
```
